WEB 1201 - Lab 8 .js
Student: Abbas
Id: 26052019

QUESTIONS 1: Networking Fundamentals
a. What is the theoretical number of ports given that it is a 16 bit value? 
2^16 = 65536

b. Explain the different states in the "STATE" column of the output of the netstat command:
LISTENING - waiting for incoming connections
ESTABLISHED - connection is currently active between two devices 
TIME-WAIT - One side has already closed it but waiting just incase for the other side
CLOSE_WAIT - Remote device has closed the connection but the local system is waiting for the app to close as well
CLOSING - Both sides are currently in the process of closing it 
CLOSED - Connection no longer exists

c. What does netstat -an do? 
= It displays all active network connections and listening ports using numerical addresses and port numbers.

d. Create the command that shows the fully qualified domain name
= netstat -f


QUESTIONS 2: Execution Order
question 1 - describe the order of events in javascript?
= JavaScript executes sequentially top-to-bottom as encountered in the document. The alert dialog blocks parsing, meaning the alert is shown first, and only after dismissing it do the subsequent HTML paragraphs (<p>) display on the screen.

question 2 - How many times have your scripts ran? Explain what triggers the execution of the scripts that you have written so far?
= The scripts run every time the web page is loaded or refreshed. Page load events and inline triggers (like user clicks or hovers) trigger execution.


QUESTIONS 3: External JavaScript & Linking
a. When will you use an external javascript file?
= When there is a large amount of .js code required, to declutter the .html file, or to reuse the same script across multiple web pages.

b. Relative vs Absolute links:
Relative: Path based on the current file/location. Example: js/script.js
Absolute: Full URL/path to the resource. Example: https://example.com/js/script.js

c. Can external HTTP files use relative links?
No. Relative links refer to files within the current site/path on the local server. To access a file hosted on a different external server, an absolute URL (http:// or https://) must be used.


QUESTIONS 4: Web Hosting, OOP, and Properties
1. How a website is hosted on a web server and retrieved using ports:
A web server hosts files and listens on a specific network port (e.g., port 80 for HTTP, port 443 for HTTPS). When a client enters an address in a browser, an HTTP request is sent to the server's IP address and target port. The server receives the request on that listening socket and sends back the requested web resources.

2. (Challenge) What to configure on a router to host a website for external access:
You need to configure "Port Forwarding" on the router to route incoming external traffic on port 80/443 directly to the local IP address of your internal web server machine.

3. Object-Oriented Concepts:
(a) Difference between Object and Class: A Class is a blueprint or template defining properties and methods, while an Object is a concrete instance created from that class.
(b) Method: A function attached to an object that defines an action the object can perform.
(c) Property: A variable or value attached to an object that describes a characteristic or state of that object.

4. Can you use a JavaScript method to change an element's property?
Yes. You can invoke DOM methods like `element.setAttribute("style", "color: red;")` or `element.classList.add("active")` to modify an element's underlying properties.